+++
date = 2020-05-23T22:00:00Z
lastmod = 2020-05-23T22:00:00Z
author = "axiomtheme"
title = "v0.6.0 Release Notes"
subtitle = "Axiom v0.6.0 includes breaking changes. Switched syntax highlighting from Prism.js to Hugo's built-in Chroma implementation."
+++

Axiom [v0.6.0](https://github.com/marketempower/axiom/releases/tag/v0.6.0):

**Breaking**

- Switched syntax highlighting from Prism.js to Hugo's built-in Chroma implementation. This will allow Axiom to support 100% of the languages. Javascript libs like Prism would grow too big if we included all the languages. Generating highlighting on the build-side is also more performant, one-less script HTTP request by removing Prism. Config file `[markup.highlight]` `codeFences` must be set to `true` or not present at all, since the Hugo default is `true`

**What's New**

- Dark and Light syntax highlighting themes. Users can now select "dark" or "light" highlighting by setting an option in their Hugo *Config* file (`config.toml`). Under `[params]` add `highlight = "light"` to switch to the light theme
- Turn off syntax highlighting, to use third-party libraries. Under `[params]` add `highlight = false` (no quotes). No CSS will be output
- Dark syntax highlighting is on by default
- Use your own _Custom_ Chroma syntax highlighting theme. Add `syntax-light.css` and/or `syntax-dark.css` to your Project's _Assets_ directory (`/assets`)
- Added option to omit theme attribution. In Hugo *Config* file (`config.toml`), under `[params]` add `omitThemeAttribution = true`

**Improvements**

- Separated syntax highlighting theme styles from formatting styles to support above new features
- Syntax highlighting CSS is _inlined_ below the Bundle CSS, so no new HTTP requests are made
- Refactored the core _CDATA_ CSS (`/src/cdata.css`). Reduced its size significantly, while improving coverage and maintaining high specificity
- Moved the `<pre>` and `<code>` CSS under the _CDATA_ namespace (`.cdata`). This improves specificity and coverage

**Updates**

- Updated Alpine.js to latest version `v2.3.5`
- Updated the Adsense code snippet
